Secrets Import documentation (#25594)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/docs/import/mappings.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Secrets import mappings
description: Mappings lets users apply various filtering methods to secrets being imported in to Vault.
---

# Import mappings

> There are multiple types of mapping blocks that can be defined in the import plan. Each type enables a

Reviewer: This suggests mapping are not used for applies?

> different mechanism for filtering out secrets from an external system during the execution of an import.

Reviewer: It's a filter-in strategy rather than a filter-out.

> There are multiple types of mapping blocks that can be defined in the import plan. Each type enables a
> different mechanism for filtering out secrets from an external system during the execution of an import.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Vault supports multiple filter types for mapping blocks. You can use the
different types to filter the information Vault reads in during the import
process.
```

Style correction: write in active voice

> ## Argument reference

Reviewer 2: We have two options here:
1. Keep the "Argument reference" section but rename it to something like "Common mapping fields", document the common fields in a partial, then include the partial here and in the import/index.mdx file (per earlier suggested edits)
2. Remove this section and focus just on the filter-specific fields since the common fields are already documented in the general import doc

Author: I don't think I intended to have it in both places, and your suggestion #2 makes the most sense to me because of that. 👍

All types of mapping blocks, no matter the type, have four shared arguments:

* `name` - (Required) The name of the mapping block used internally to track secrets imported from a source to a destination.

* `source` - (Required) The name of the source block for which this mapping's filter logic will be applied to.

* `destination` - (Required) The name of the Vault destination block for which this mapping will place the matching secrets into.

* `priority` - (Required) Controls the order in which multiple mapping blocks will be applied to the secrets being imported. The

> lower the value specified, the higher the priority will be during filtering.

Reviewer 2: See comments in the import overview for suggested edits to the field names

> ## Passthrough

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Passthrough mapping filters
```

to match any of the previous mappings will fall through to the passthrough block and be collected in a single
KVv2 bucket.

### Additional arguments

There are no extra arguments to specify in a `mapping_passthrough` block.

### Example

In this example, every single secret that `my-gcp-source-1` is reads from GCP Secret Manager will be imported
to the KVv2 Secrets Engine mount defined in `my-dest-1`.

```hcl
mapping_passthrough {
  name = "my-map-1"
  source = "my-gcp-source-1"
  destination = "my-dest-1"
  priority = 1
}
```

## Metadata

Metadata mapping blocks `mapping_metadata` allow secrets through from the specified source to the specified
destination if they contain matching metadata key-value pairs. Metadata is not supported in all external secret
manageement systems, and ones that do may use different terminology for metadata. For example, AWS allows tags
on secrets while [GCP](/vault/docs/import/gcpsm) allows labels.

### Additional arguments

* `tags` - (Required) A set of key-value pairs to match on secrets from the external system. All of the specified
keys must be found on a secret and all of the values must be exact matches. A key with an empty value, i.e. `""`,

> must also match an empty value from the external system.

Reviewer: I think the current implement considers an empty value as "match anything".

### Example

In this example, there are two metadata mappings. The first, `my-map-1`, has a priority of 1. This will only import
the secrets into the destination `my-dest-1` that contain both tag keys `database` and `importable`. Each of these
keys' values must also match to `users` and `true` respectively to be imported. The second, `my-map-2`, has a
priority of 2. Even though all the secrets in the first map would also qualify for the second map's filtering rule,
those secrets will only be imported into `my-dest-1` because of the lower priority set in the second mapping. All
remaining secrets that have the tag `importable` with a value of `true` will be imported into `my-dest-2`. 

```hcl
mapping_metadata {
  name = "my-map-1"
  source = "my-gcp-source-1"
  destination = "my-dest-1"
  priority = 1
  tags = {
    "database" = "users"
    "importable" = "true"
  }
}

mapping_metadata {
  name = "my-map-2"
  source = "my-gcp-source-1"
  destination = "my-dest-2"
  priority = 2
  tags = {
    "importable" = "true"
  }
}

> ```

Reviewer: Should there be a section dedicated to showing how priority works instead of putting this inside the metadata mapping section? I think a dedicated priority section would be more discoverable for users scanning through the doc looking for this specific topic.

## Regex

Regex mapping blocks `mapping_regex` allow secrets through from the specified source to the specified
destination if their secret name passes a regular expression check.

### Additional arguments

* `expression` - (Required) A regular expression to match secrets names from the external system. All of
the specified keys must be found on a secret and all of the values must be exact matches. A key with an empty

> value, e.g. `""`, must also match an empty value from the external system.

Reviewer: I think the 2nd sentence is copied from the metadata section but does not apply to regex.
